* Quickstart

You have ADHD. Your pulse never drops below 200 beats per
minute and you drink Redbull to calm down. This is the
tutorial for you.

Step 1 - [[install][download and install freex]].


** Creating a journal/scrapbook

Let's say you want to keep a journal, idea-log or scrapbook
of some kind. Maybe you're a blogger who wants to keep track
of your ideas for future posts. Or a scientist keeping track
of experimental results. Or a programmer who wants to keep a
log of design and implementation decisions.

You'd like it to be easy to write things down, but find them
later. You'd like to be able to tag each entry (or 'nugget'
as we're going to term it), search through them etc.

In emacs, run M-x find-file
"~/path/to/freex/data/journal.freex". Type something
in. Save it.

Now type 'journal'. Notice that it automatically becomes a
hyperlink.

Type a couple of entries, e.g.:

<example>
----
22 October 2007

toilet paper ran out today.


----
23 October 2007

got awarded Nobel Prize today. Again.


----
24 October 2007

still no toilet paper. Good job I'm constipated.


----
25 October 2007

no longer constipated. one problem down, but still no toilet
paper, so I have other problems now.

</example>

Enough. 

Highlight the first entry. Run M-x
freex-embed-define-region-as-nugget, and enter "journal - 22
October 2007". Save.

Notice that the region you highlighted now has a grey
background. You just created a nugget called 'journal - 22
October 2007" that is embedded within "journal". In other
words, you can have nuggets embedded within other
nuggets. You can run M-x find-file "journal - 22 October
2007.freex", and you'll see your entry. Try editing it and
save. Now, go back to "journal" and run M-x
revert-buffer. It should have updated to reflect your
changes.

Let's tag our first entry now. Put the cursor inside the
first entry, and run M-x
freex-meta-edit-tag-parents-in-minibuffer. You should see
"journal/22 October 2007/". In other words, your first entry
is tagged with (i.e. belongs to) "journal" and "22 October
2007". Let's also tag it with "toilet paper".

Now, highlight the second entry, define that as a nugget
called "journal - 23 October 2007" just as before, and tag
it with "Nobel Prize". Now, Nobel Prize will show up as a
link too, though you might have to edit the text nearby to
make emacs notice that it's there.

Highlight the third entry, name it, and tag it with "toilet
paper" and "constipated".

Close all your buffers. Let's pretend that you're trying to
find that nugget you wrote about toilet paper and being
constipated so that you can recount the story at a dinner
party. Run M-x freex-meta-find and enter "toi[TAB]". It'll
complete to "toilet paper". We want the nuggets that belong
to "toilet paper" though, not "toilet paper" itself, so put
in "toilet paper/[TAB]". If this was a file system, this
would be like saying "which files are in the 'toilet paper'
directory?". But we're not in Kansas any more, as you'll
begin to see.

If you've been paying attention this far, then you'll see
something like this:

<example>
Possible completions are:
toilet paper/22 October 2007/	   toilet paper/24 October 2007/
toilet paper/constipated/	   toilet paper/journal - 22 October 2007
toilet paper/journal - 24 October 2007
toilet paper/journal/  
</example>

Think of anything with a "/" on the end as a kind of
subdirectory, i.e. a category that you could use to further
whittle down the list of items that belong to "toilet
paper". In this case, you could usefully whittle things down
with the date, or by "constipated", so let's try that. Enter
"toilet paper/constipated/[TAB]". Sure enough, it should
complete to "toilet paper/constipated/journal - 24 October
2007", the only nugget that is tagged with both "toilet
paper" and "constipated".

You could experiment by running M-x freex-meta-find and some
of the following queries:

<example>
  journal/

  constipated/

  toilet paper/"other problems now"/

  toilet paper//

  toilet paper//*
</example>

Hmmmm. My aim was to tell you enough to be dangerous. Not
dangerous like a man aiming at a cow with a shoulder-mounted
rocket launcher is dangerous, but dangerous enough to be
getting on with. Maybe try the
[[intro_tutorial][more technical, introductory tutorial]] now.
